Hey,
guys,
welcome backs in this video,
we're going to discuss the different variable data types in xlv B A.
So variables in XlV be a have different data types.
And if you think of variables as containers or buckets that contain data on this data is
stored in memory.
These containers or buckets number one can hold different types of data so each bucket type
or container type can hold a certain data type,
and it cannot hold other data types.
That's number one.
Number two is that because they hold different data types,
they will have different sizes because different data types can occupy different sizes.
So they have two main aspects.
They can hold different data types,
and they will have different sizes.
Now.
The reason we're learning about the data types in XlV B A for variables is that because
thes variables occupy a size in the memory of your computer,
it is a better practice to select the appropriate data type for each variable.
So that means that it is a better practice to select a data type that can just accommodate
the data that you're gonna put in your variable,
and you would not select a data type that is overly big.
So it is a better practice to just select a size that just fits your data as long as it can
accommodate its size at all the points in your procedures.
OK,
so as long as if the size of your data shrinks or expands,
it can accommodate it.
Fists makes for better efficiency when your program or where your macro is running.
So it makes sure that it won smoother a runs in the shortest amount of time possible.
And although these differences do not appear in small procedures in Small micro's,
they do appear in Big Mac Rose.
Okay,
so it is a better practice in general to declare a variable that can just suit your data
type that is not overly big.
And it's also not smaller,
then the data type that you're gonna accommodate in your variable.
Okay,
so let's see,
what are the different data types that we have in XlV?
Be a first of all.
We've got the bite data type,
and this bite data type has a storage size of one bite.
And that means that it occupies only one bite in memory of your computer and it's olive oil
ranges between zero and 255.
So that means that you can put numbers between zero and 255 in that data type.
So if you put 256 for example,
then you're going to get an error.
There is also the Boolean data type,
and the bullion data type occupies two bites in your memory in your computer's memory.
That's its storage size,
and it can only hold either true or false values.
OK,
so it cannot think any other values.
It cannot take five or six and two of force.
By the way,
they can be one and zero.
So one is a true and zero is a false.
It cannot take any other values it cannot take Johnny.
You cannot take five okay,
so can only take true or false values.
There is also the integer data type,
which can Onley hold integers and it occupies two bites in your computer's memory.
So that is its storage size,
and it can accept values between negative 32,768 to positive 32,700 67 so if you try to put
a value days outside the range of values.
So,
for example,
33,000 you will get an error,
and if you try to put a decimal value in it,
the value will be rounded up or down,
depending on the value.
So if the number on the right hand side of the decimal point is between one and five,
it will be rounded down.
So,
for example,
if you give it a value between 1.0 and 1.5,
it will be rounded down to a one.
However,
if the value is greater than 1.5,
so even 1.51 or 1.6 it will be rounded up to two.
So that's that interject data type.
There's also the Long Data type,
which occupies four bytes and its range of values between negative 2,000,000,147 million,
483,648 and positive,
two billion and all that long number.
There's also the single data type,
which occupies four bytes of memory and has a range of negative 3.4 by 10 to the power 38
to negative 1.4 by TEMPTED the poor negative 45 for negative values and 1.4 by tens of poor
negative.
45 23.4 by tend to the poor.
38 for positive values has a big range.
That double as well occupies eight bites.
Has this range negative 1.79 by tend to the poor.
308 to negative.
4.94 by tens of poor.
Three negative,
3 to 4 for negative values and 4.9 by temper.
Poor.
Negative.
3 to 4 to 1.79 by terms of the poor.
308 for positive values.
And there's the currency as well.
You can see its range here,
and there's also the date which can only hold dates.
Okay,
so if you give it a string,
it will fail.
And a string.
It means attacks.
Basically,
you will get an error.
There's also the string data type,
and you can either declare a fixed length string.
Okay,
and I'll tell you how to do that.
And there's also the variable length string,
and most in most of the cases we just declare a variable length string because it's not
worth it to fix the length of the string.
We normally just declare a variable length string,
but it might show you how to do the fixed length.
One is very simple just for ah,
an extra bit of information,
and there is also the variant data type,
and this data type is basically assumed by excel if you do not declare your variable as
being a certain data time.
So if you just declare a variable where if you do not declare a variable at all,
Excel will just give it the very indeed a type which,
as you can see her,
occupies the biggest amount of sighs in memory.
16 bytes.
And it is generally not a good practice to declare variant data types.
You might see me just not declare the variables in this course,
sometimes just to focus on the subject of the lesson that I'll be teaching you.
But it's generally not a good practice to leave your variables as variant.
It is a better practice,
too.
Declare your variables win a data type,
and people would sometimes not declared the type of the variable if they do not know what
is going to be put inside it,
and there macro would still run.
And probably this is the only exceptional case that you should do it.
But it's generally a better practice,
too.
Specify the data type for the variable that you declare.
Declaring variables is also debated.
You will see debated on the Internet because some people do not believe in the need for
declaring the data types for variables or declaring the variables.
It'll and they're actually Excel geeks who actually do not declare variables such as,
for example,
Mr Excel or Bill Jelen.
He does not believe in declaring variables,
and declaring variables will not make a big difference when you write a small micro.
But it does make a difference when you write a big macro with lots of variables and loss of
stuff to be done in it.
So it is generally a better practice to declare your variables and declare their data types
,
and we will see in the upcoming lesson how we conduce that.
But this is just a introduction to data types in XlV B A.
So thank you very much guys for watching this video,
and I'll see on the next one